0. Speaker A : Our only witness today is mr. sundar pichai which eye is the chief executive officer of google.

1. Speaker B : Ranking member nadler distinguished members of the comedy thank you for the opportunity to be here today.

2. Speaker C : More than 90% of all internet searches take place on google or subsidiary youtube and they are curating what we see google has long faced criticism for manipulating search results to censor conservative conservative individuals and organizations have had their pro-trump content had as hate speech or had their content reduced in search results so what are you going to improve that situation.

3. Speaker B : Congressman thanks for the question if i met some of the studies you mention we have investigated those that are the other studies which have looked at that we have found issues with the methodology and the sample size and so on but let me step back and say providing uses with high-quality activate infested information is sacrosanct to us it's what are principles are on their business interests are natural long-term incentives are aligned with that we want to sell uses everywhere and we need to earn the trust in doing so.

4. Speaker D : Eliana murillo is google's head of multicultural marketing does miss murillo do good work.

5. Speaker E : I'm not terribly familiar with her work but she's an employee of google and you.

6. Speaker D : We are proud of our employees or head of multicultural marketing said you were pushing to get out the latino vote paying for a ride to the pole to the polls for the latino vote only in key states and you're saying that's not accurate.

7. Speaker B : Yes that's right we haven't found any evidence to substantiate.

8. Speaker D : Then she didn't you just made it up out of thin air the day after the election wrote this email to your top executives and it's not true.

9. Speaker B : I miss my mom happy to follow up but i think employees today do their own activity to get out the key boat and.

10. Speaker D : Go in and i will send the two most populous states for looking for latinos would be california and texas did you pushing it out the latino vote and pay for people to go to the polls in california texas.

11. Speaker B : We as a company than to any effort to push out words for any particular demographic that would be against our principles we are displayed in the civic process and in a nonpartisan way we think it's really important we do it that way.

12. Speaker F : I have an iphone and if i move from here and go over there and sit with my democrat friends which will make them real nervous does google track my movement does google.

13. Speaker D : Does google through this phone no.

14. Speaker F : Know that i have moved here and moved over to the left.

15. Speaker B : Not by default they may be a google service with you opted in to use and if so google knows that i am.

16. Speaker F : But i am moving over there it's not a trick question you know you make a hundred million dollars a year you oughta be able to answer that question does google know through this phone that i am moving over there and sit next to mr. johnson which would make him real nervous it's his question.

17. Speaker D : I just for no.

18. Speaker B : I won't be able to answer without looking at it. it's a yes or no.

19. Speaker G : I have a concern.

20. Speaker C : Apart of google's core values.

21. Speaker G : You understand my question.

22. Speaker B : Congressman we right now there are no plans for us to launch a search product in china we are in general always looking to see how best it's part of our core mission and our principles to try hard to provide users with information via be always have evidence based on every country we have operated in us reaching out and giving uses two more information has a very positive impact and and be filled at calling but right now there are no plans to launch in china today extend that we we ever going to approach a decision like that i will be fully transparent including with policymakers here and an engagement consult widely.

23. Speaker H : So anticipating what took place in 2016 happening again and in this is specifically regarding.

24. Speaker B : We mainly saw with respect to russia limited improper activity on our add platforms.

25. Speaker E : Platforms but in general we are not a social networking company across the product we do maybe we haven't done well as our company so we typically are in connecting groups of people and that's not how google mainly works today and so we haven't seen that kind of activities on all platforms but be a vigilant and you know i'm happy to share any findings which come through as we look into it more.

26. Speaker F : The operating environment in china has deteriorated with respect to surveillance censorship and the like since google first made the decision 2010 to leave someone asked for you specifically are any employees currently having product meetings on this on this chinese project and went if not when did those end.

27. Speaker E : We have undertaken an internal effort but right now there are no plans to launch a search service in china.

28. Speaker F : Are there any current discussions with any member of the chinese government on launching this app.

29. Speaker E : I kind of ignored in discussions around launching a search product in china.

30. Speaker F : Are there any current discussions with members of the chinese government about this.

31. Speaker B : ....

32. Speaker E : In this effort currently is an internal effort and you know i'm happy to consult as we transfer into the action we take steps to it's launching a product in china.

33. Speaker F : And who is that google is leading the dragonfly effort.

34. Speaker B : It's a.

35. Speaker E : You know our efforts around a building search you know it's it's it's under taken by our search teams but these are distributed efforts it's a limited effort internally currently.

36. Speaker D : Will you miss me try to rule out launching a tool for surveillance and censorship in china while you.

37. Speaker F : While you are ceo of google.

38. Speaker E : Congressman and i commit to engaging one of the things which is important to us as a company we have a stated mission of providing uses with information and so we always we think it's in our duty to explore possibilities to give users access to information and you know i have that commitment but you know what i said earlier on this will be very thoughtful and we will engage widely as we make progress.

39. Speaker F : This is now the fourth hearing in a series of ridiculous hearings on a free speech of internet companies a significant portion this hearing was a waste of time because the first amendment protects.

40. Speaker E : ....

41. Speaker F : Private individuals and corporations free speech rights search for cosmo and steve king i'ma hit the news tab 4 star that pops up some abc news.

42. Speaker E : Always operate for any credit with the same set of principles we are trying to deflect what is currently in if it is newsworthy what is currently being discussed about that that that phrase thank you.

43. Speaker F : So let me just conclude here by stating the obvious.

44. Speaker A : Did google design a prototype for a search engine that.

45. Speaker D : Engine that could be used in china to censor.

46. Speaker A : ....

47. Speaker E : Congressman be undertaken an internal effort.

48. Speaker A : But how did you create a prototype that there was a report in the intercept that says a prototype for the censored search engine was designed.

49. Speaker B : ....

50. Speaker E : What search could look like if it if it were to be launched in a country like china that's what he explored and how many months.

51. Speaker A : How many months was that project ongoing.

52. Speaker E : We've had the project underway for a while and there'll be another project to feel undertaken for a while and we've never launched them too so he could be a constantly exploring.

53. Speaker D : How many how many people were working on it.

54. Speaker B : ....

55. Speaker E : The estimates in a number of engineers on the project of varied overtime at 10 at one point we had over a hundred people working on it is my understanding.

56. Speaker A : Who makes the judgment calls regarding content moderation at goo.

57. Speaker B : ....

58. Speaker E : Chairman it depends on the area so for example if it's youtube bee have.

59. Speaker B : You know very clear teams which are responsible for.

60. Speaker E : Youtube content policy sand.

61. Speaker A : Please send the identified is it possible for a customer to write to them and say hey yours.

62. Speaker E : We can for your channels for content creators to you know to race constance back and we've cleared avenue sand and we also had people who are responsible for these platforms including content moderation appear here you know when and i think they've consulted widely here here to.

63. Speaker A : Thank you while you five gone for about three and a half hours and about what we predicted isn't it yesterday when we talked so we thank you very much for your participation today this concludes today's hearing without objection all members will have five legislative days to submit written question for the witness or additional materials for the record that is hearing is adjourned.

