Speaker A : Our only witness today is mr. sundar pichai which eye is the chief executive officer of google.

Speaker B : Kevin goodluck ranking member nadler distinguished members of the committee thank you for the opportunity to be here today.

Speaker C : More than 90% of all internet searches take place on google what's subsidiary youtube and they are curating what we see google has long faced criticism for manipulating search results to censor conservatives insured of individuals and organizations have had their pro-trump content had as hate speech or had their content reduced in search results what are you going to improve that situation.

Speaker B : Congressman thanks for the question if i met some of the studies you mention we have investigated those that are there other studies which have looked at that you found issues with the methodology and the sample size and so on but let me step back and say relining uses with high-quality activate and trusted information is sacrosanct to us it's what are principles are on their business interests are natural long-term incentives are aligned with that we want to sell uses everywhere and we need to earn the trust in doing so.

Speaker D : Eliana murillo is google's head of multicultural marketing does miss murillo do good work.

Speaker B : I'm not very familiar with her work but she's an employee of google and you know we are proud of our employees.

Speaker D : Said you were pushing to get out the latino vote paying for a ride to the pole to the polls for the latino vote only in key states and you're saying that's not actor haven't found any evidence to substantiate didn't you just made it up out of thin air the day after the election wrote this email to your top executives and it's not true.

Speaker B : I'm happy to follow up but i think employees today do their own activity what the follow up.

Speaker D : I said earlier we've looked into it we didn't find you push to get out the key boat and i would say the two most populous states for latinos would be california and texas did you push to get out the latino vote and pay for people to go to the polls in california and texas.

Speaker B : We s accompanied into any effort to push out words for any particular demographic that would be against our principles are displayed in the civic processing in a nonpartisan way and we think it's really important we do it that way.

Speaker E : I have an iphone and if i move from here and go over there and sit with my democrat friends which will make them real nervous does google track my movement does google through this phone know that i have moved here and moved over to the left at either yes or no not by default they may be a google service which you have opted-in to use i need so google knows that i am moving over there it's not a trick question you know you make a hundred million dollars a year you oughta be able to answer that question does google know through this phone that i am moving over there and sit next to mr. johnson which would make him real nervous his question yes or no.

Speaker B : I won't be able to answer that i'm looking for no more details.

Speaker F : I have a concern concerning china in 2010 google left a chinese marketplace due to concerns over hack hacking attacks censorship and how the chinese government was possibly gaining access to data i'm interested in what is changed since 2010 and how working with the chinese government to censor research results apart of google's core values.

Speaker B : Congressman we right now that are no plans for us to launch a search product in china we are in general always looking to see how best it's part of our core mission in our principles to try hard to provide us with information via be always have evidence based on every country we have operated in us reaching out and giving uses two more information has a very positive impact and i'm the feel like calling but right now there are no plans to launch in china they extend that we we ever going to approach a decision like that i will be fully transparent including with policymakers here and an engagement consult widely.

Speaker G : Anticipating what took place in 2016 happening again and in this is specifically regarding what russia did to foment racial tensions in the united states and wanting to know how you are responding to that where they called for you no fake protest either to get african americans to turn out to protest something that was fake or to have white supremacist be jammed up to attack communities of color so specifically what is google doing to respond to that.

Speaker F : ....

Speaker B : We mainly saw her with respect to russia limited improper activity on our add platforms but in general we are not a social networking company across the products we do. we haven't done belleza company that we typically are in connecting groups of people and that's not how google mainly works today and so we haven't seen that kind of activities on all platforms but be a visual and then you know i'm happy to share any findings.

Speaker H : Which come through as we look into it more the operating environment in china has deteriorated with respect to surveillance censorship and the lights in school first made the decision 2010 to leave someone ask for specifically are any employees currently having product meetings on this on this chinese project and went if not when did those end we have undertaken an internal effort but right now there are no plans to launch a search service in china sister are there any current discussions with any member of the chinese government on launching this app.

Speaker B : Turn to be ignored in discussions around launching a search product in china.

Speaker H : Are there any current discussions of the members of the chinese government about this.

Speaker B : This effort currently is an internal effort and you know i'm happy to consult as we transfer into action we take.

Speaker H : Text to it's launching a product in china that google is the leading the dragonfly effort.

Speaker B : It's a you know our efforts around building search you know it's it's it's under taken by our search teams but these are distributed efforts it's a limited effort internally currently.

Speaker H : Will you miss me try to rule out launching a tool for surveillance and censorship in china while you are ceo of google.

Speaker B : Congressman iii, to engaging one of the things which is important to us as a company they have a stated mission of providing uses with information and so we always we think it's in our duty to explore possibilities to give users access to information and you know i have that commitment but you know what i said earlier on this will be very thoughtful and we will engage widely as female.

Speaker I : This is now the fourth hearing in a series are ridiculous hearings on a free speech of internet companies a significant portion this hearing was a waste of time because the first amendment protects private individuals and corporations free speech rights search for cosmos steve king i'mma hit that use tab for sorrow that pops up some abc news it says steve king racist immigration talk prompts calls for congressional censure article and try to modify search results every time steve king cuz of comes up and that's not what's happening right.

Speaker B : Call lisa operate for any credit with the same set of principles we are trying to deflect what is currently in if it is newsworthy what is currently being discussed about that that that phrase.

Speaker I : Thank you so let me just conclude here by stating the obvious if you want positive search results do positive things if you don't want that your search results don't do not do things do some of my colleagues across the aisle with you getting bad press articles and bad search results don't blame google or facebook or twitter considered blaming yourself.

Speaker A : ....

Speaker D : Did google design a prototype for a search engine that could be used in china to censor content.

Speaker A : Congressman be undertaken an internal effort did you create a prototype that there was a report in the intercept that says a prototype for the censored search engine was designed.

Speaker B : What search could look like if it if it were to be launched in a country like china and that's what we explored and how many months was that project ongoing we've had the project underway for a while and there'll be another project to feel undertaken for a while and we've never launched them too so they could be a concert dates gloria how many people.

Speaker D : ....

Speaker B : Estimates in a number of engineers on the project of varied overtime at 10 at one point we had over a hundred people working on it is my understanding makes the judgment calls.

Speaker A : Regarding content moderation.

Speaker E : ....

Speaker B : Chairman it depends on the area so for example if it's youtube we have you know very clear teams which are responsible for youtube content policies and they identified is it possible for.

Speaker A : Customer to write to them and say hey.

Speaker B : Is the concern i have become clear channel's for content creators to you know to race constance back and be a player avenue sand and we also had people who are responsible for these platforms in treating content moderation appear here you know and i think i've consulted widely here here to.

Speaker A : Thank you well you've gone for about three and a half hours and about what we predicted isn't it yesterday when we talked so we thank you very much for your participation today this concludes today's hearing and without objection all members will have five legislative days to submit written question for the witness or additional materials for the record and with that the steering is jerky.

